README.md, before:

Skeletor Project Creation Tool
===============================
Skeletor is fork of the popular [Lazybones](https://github.com/pledbrook/lazybones) 
project created by Peter Ledbrook. Though unmaintained for some time, Lazybones 
continued to be used by other projects as a means to generate project layouts 
from templates and it was distributed on [SDKMAN](https://sdkman.io/) which made it 
more convenient to install and use. This came to an end with the [shutdown of Bintray.](https://jfrog.com/blog/into-the-sunset-bintray-jcenter-gocenter-and-chartcenter/)
 Since this is where the application binaries and "built-in" templates lived and 
SDKMAN stopped distribution as the binaries were no longer available.

My goal is to get Skeletor updated and distributed on SDKMAN. As that is not the 
case yet, I'll document the manual installation process as well.

The big changes from Lazybones are: 
1. The new project name and the application command are both now 'skeletor'
1. The user profile directory for configurations and template cache is now $USER_HOME/.skeletor
1. A new URL based repository has been implemented for use by listing and creating projects from it. 
Publishing to the repository is not yet implemented. Manual steps are trivial and documented below.

Existing Lazybones templates should still work if moved to a URL repository as described below.
The .lazybones subdirectory created in project templates has been continued here for compatibility purposes.
This maybe changed in a future major version release.

The following content is updated from the original docs... (Work in progress!!)

The tool is very simple: it allows you to create a new project structure for
any framework or library for which the tool has a template. 

The concept of Skeletor is very similar to Maven archetypes, and what [Yeoman](http://yeoman.io/)
does for web applications. Skeletor also includes a subtemplates feature that
resembles the behaviour of Yeoman's sub-generators, allowing you to generate optional
extras (controllers, scaffolding etc.) inside a project.

## Skeletor Developer

* [Carl Marcum](https://github.com/cbmarcum)

## Skeletor Contributors

* [Osian Hughes](https://github.com/osh-onstructive)
* [Dónal Murtagh](https://github.com/donalmurtagh)

## Lazybones Developers

* [Peter Ledbrook](https://github.com/pledbrook)
* [Kyle Boon](https://github.com/kyleboon)
* [Tommy Barker](https://github.com/tbarker9)

## Lazybones Contributors

* [Luke Daley](https://github.com/alkemist)
* [Tomas Lin](https://github.com/tomaslin)
* [Russell Hart](https://github.com/rhart)
* [Dave Syer](https://github.com/dsyer)
* [Andy Duncan](https://github.com/andyjduncan)


## Running it

Grab the distribution [from our JFrog repo](https://codebuilders.jfrog.io/artifactory/generic/skeletor-app),
unpack it to a local directory, and then add its 'bin' directory to your `PATH`
environment variable.

### Finding out what templates are available

To see what templates you can install, run

    skeletor list
 
This will list all aliases and remote templates. If you want to see what
templates you have cached locally, run

    skeletor list --cached

In fact, `--cached` is implied if Lazybones can't connect to the internet.

Example

    skeletor list

    Available templates in https://codebuilders.jfrog.io/artifactory/generic/skeletor-templates

    aoo-addin
    aoo-addin-java
    aoo-addon
    aoo-addon-java
    aoo-client

You can also find out more about a template through the `info` command:

    skeletor info <template name>

This will print a description of the template and what versions are available
for it. If you're offline, this will simply display an error message.

Example
    
    skeletor info aoo-client

    Fetching package information for 'aoo-client' from repo
    Name:        aoo-client
    Latest:      0.3.0
    Description: Apache OpenOffice Client Template for Groovy
    Owner:       Code Builders, LLC
    Versions:    0.3.0

    More information at https://codebuilders.jfrog.io/artifactory/generic/skeletor-templates


### Creating projects

To create a new project, run

    skeletor create <template name> <template version> <target directory>

So if you wanted to create a skeleton Ratpack project in a new 'my-rat-app'
directory you would run

    skeletor create ratpack 1.2.0 my-rat-app
    
The version is optional and if you leave it out, Skeletor will install the
latest version of the template it can find. 

Named templates are all stored on Bintray. By default, Lazybones searches for
templates in the pledbrook/lazybones-templates repository, but you can use
other Bintray repositories by adding some configuration - set the Custom
Repositories section under Configuration later in this document.

You're not limited to only Bintray as you can install templates directly from 
a URL too:

    lazybones create http://dl.bintray.com/kyleboon/lazybones/java-basic-template-0.1.zip my-app

Of course it can be pretty laborious copying and pasting URLs around, so Lazybones
allows you to configure aliases for URLs that you use frequently. By adding the
following configuration to your Lazybones settings file, `~/.lazybones/config.groovy`
(see below for more details on this), you can install the template by name:

    templates {
        mappings {
            myTmpl = "http://dl.bintray.com/..."
        }
    }

In other words, you could now run

    lazybones create myTmpl my-app

Note that when using the URL option, there is no need to specify a version. You
should also be aware that mappings take precedence, i.e. if a mapping has the
same name as an existing template, the mapping is used. This essentially creates
a simple override mechanism.

There is just one more thing to say about the `create` command: by default it
creates the specified directory and puts the initial project in there. If you
want to unpack a template in the current directory instead, for example if you
have already created the project directory, then just pass '.' as the directory:

    lazybones create ratpack .

Once you have created a new project from a template, you may notice that the
project directory contains a .lazybones sub directory. You may delete this, but
then you won't be able to use the `generate` command (see next section) if the
project template has support for it.

Many project templates request information from you, such as a project name, a
group ID, a default package, etc. If this is the umpteenth time you have created
a project from a given template, then answering the questions can become tedious.
There is also the problem of scripting and automation when you want to create
a project without user intervention. The solution to both these issues is to
pass the values on the command line:

    lazybones create ratpack 1.2.0 ratapp -Pgroup=org.example -Ppackage=org.example.myapp

The `-P` option allows you to pass property values into the project templates
without user intervention. The key is to know what the property names are, and
that comes down to the project template. At the moment, the best way to find out
what those properties are is to look at the post-install script itself.

The last option to mention is `--with-git` which will automatically create a
new git repository in the project directory. The only requirement is that you
have the `git` command on your path.

### Sub-templates

As of Lazybones version 0.7, project templates can incorporate subtemplates.
Imagine that you have just created a new web application project from a template
and that template documents that you can create new controllers using a sub-
template named `controller`. To use it, just `cd` into the project directory
and run

    lazybones generate controller
    
This will probably ask you for the name of the controller and its package before
generating the corresponding controller file in your project. You can reuse the
command to create as many controllers as you need.

As with the `create` command, you can also pass in property values on the command
line if the subtemplate is parameterised:

    lazybones generate controller -Ppackage=org.example.myapp -Pclass=Book
    
The last option available to you as a user is template qualifiers. These only
work if the subtemplate supports them, but they allow you to pass additional
information in a concise way:

    lazybones generate artifact::controller
    
In this case, the template name is `artifact`, but we have qualified it with
an extra `controller`. You can pass in as many qualifiers as you want, you just
separate them with `::`.

Note that you do not specify a version with the `generate` command. This is
because the subtemplates are embedded directly in the project template, and
so there can only be one version available to you.



## Configuration

Skeletor will run out of the box without any extra configuration, but the tool
does allow you to override the default behaviour via a fixed set of configuration
options. These options can be provided in a number of ways following a set order
of precedence:

1.   System properties of the form `lazybones.*`, which can be passed into the app
via either `JAVA_OPTS` or `LAZYBONES_OPTS` environment variables. For example:

        env JAVA_OPTS="-Dlazybones.config.file=/path/to/my-custom-default-config.groovy" lazybones ...

    Highest precedence, i.e. it overrides all other sources of setting data.

2.   User configuration file in `$USER_HOME/.lazybones/config.groovy`. This is parsed
using Groovy's `ConfigSlurper`, so if you're familiar with that syntax you'll be
right at home. Otherwise, just see the examples below.

3.   (Since 0.8) A JSON configuration file in `$USER_HOME/.lazybones/managed-config.groovy`
that is used by the `config` commands. You can edit it this as well.

4.   A Groovy-based default configuration file that is provided by the application
itself, but you can specify an alternative file via the `lazybones.config.file`
system property.

Lazybones also provides a convenient mechanism for setting and removing options
via the command line: the `config` command.

### Command line configuration

The `config` command provides several sub-commands that allow you to interact with
the persisted Lazybones configuration; specifically, the JSON config file. You
run a sub-command via

    lazybones config <sub-cmd> <args>

where `<sub-cmd>` is one of:

*   `set <option> <value> [<value> ...]`

    Allows you to change the value of a configuration setting. Multiple values are
    treated as a single array/list value. The new value replaces any existing one.

*   `add <option> <value>`

    Appends an extra value to an existing array/list setting. Reports an error if
    the setting doesn't accept multiple values. If the setting doesn't already have
    a value, this command will initialise it with an array containing the given
    value.

*   `clear <option>`

    Removes a setting from the configuration, effectively reverting it to whatever
    the internal default is.

*   `show [--all] <option>`

    Shows the current value of a setting. You can use the `--all` argument (without
    a setting name) to display all the current settings and their values.

*   `list`

    Displays all the configuration settings supported by Lazybones.

So what configuration settings are you likely to customise?

### Custom repositories

Lazybones will by default download the templates from a specific Bintray
repository. If you want to host template packages in a different repository
you can add it to Lazybone's search path via the `bintrayRepositories`
setting:

    bintrayRepositories = [
          "kyleboon/lazybones",
          "pledbrook/lazybones-templates"
    ]

If a template exists in more than one repository, it will be downloaded from the
first repository in the list that it appears in.

### Package aliases

If you regularly use a template at a specific URL rather than from Bintray, then
you will want to alias that URL to a name. That's where template mappings (or
aliases) come in. The aliases are defined as normal settings of the form

    templates.mappings.<alias> = <url>

In a Groovy configuration file, you can define multiple aliases in a block:

    templates {
        mappings {
            test = "http://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/29802534/custom-ratpack.zip"
            after = "file:///var/tmp/afterburnerfx-2.0.0.zip"
        }
    }

Alternatively, add them from the command line like this:

    lazybones config set templates.mappings.after file:///var/tmp/afterburnerfx-2.0.0.zip

The aliases will always be available to you until you remove them from the persisted
configuration.

### Setting a proxy (and other system properties) (Since 0.8.1)

Many people have to work behind a proxy, but Lazybones didn't make it easy to
configure one. In fact the only way to do it was to add the relevant system
properties to a `JAVA_OPTS` environment variable. From 0.8.1, you now have another
option.

Lazybones has stolen the idea of having a special form of configuration option for
system properties from Gradle. So if you define a property with a `systemProp.`
prefix, it will be added as a system property internally. So to configure an HTTP
proxy, you only need to add the following to your Lazybones configuration:

    systemProp {
        http {
            proxyHost = "localhost"
            proxyPort = 8181
        }
        https {
            proxyHost = "localhost"
            proxyPort = 8181
        }
    }
    
To avoid potential configuration issues, use the same proxy settings for HTTP and
HTTPS if possible.

If your proxy requires authentication, you will need to add a couple of extra
properties:

    systemProp {
        http {
            proxyUser = "johndoe"
            proxyPassword = "mypassword"
        }
    }

As with the host and port, there are `https` variants of the username and passwordi
as well.

### General options

These are miscellaneous options that can be overridden on the command line:

    // <-- This starts a line comment
    // Set logging level - overridden by command line args
    options.logLevel = "SEVERE"

The logging level can either be overridden using the same `logLevel` setting:

    lazybones --logLevel SEVERE info ratpack

or via `--verbose`, `--quiet`, and `--info` options:

    lazybones --verbose info ratpack

The logging level can be one of:

* OFF
* SEVERE
* WARNING
* INFO
* FINE
* FINEST
* ALL

## Building it

This project is split into two parts:

1. The lazybones command line tool; and
2. The project templates.

### The command line tool

The command line tool is created via Gradle's application plugin. The main
class is `uk.co.cacoethes.lazybones.LazyBonesMain`, which currently implements
all the sub-commands (create, list, etc.) as concrete methods.

The main class plus everything else under src/main is packaged into a lazybones
JAR that is included in the distribution zip. The application Gradle plugin
generates a `lazybones` script that then runs the main class with all required
dependencies on the classpath.

To build the distribution, simply run

    ./gradlew distZip

### The project templates

The project templates are simply directory structures with whatever files in
them that you want. Ultimately, the template project directories will be zipped
up and stored on [Bintray](https://bintray.com/repo/browse/pledbrook/lazybones-templates).
From there, lazybones downloads the zips on demand and caches them in a local
user directory (currently ~/.lazybones/templates).

If you want empty directories to form part of the project template, then simply
add an empty .retain file to each one. When the template archive is created,
any .retain files are filtered out (but the containing directories are included).

To package up a template, simply run

    ./gradlew packageTemplate<TemplateName>

The name of the project template comes from the containing directory, which is
assumed to be lowercase hyphenated. The template name is the equivalent camel
case form. So the template directory structure in src/templates/my-template
results in a template called 'MyTemplate', which can be packaged with

    ./gradlew packageTemplateMyTemplate

The project template archive will be created in the build directory with the
name '<template name>-template-<version>.zip'. See the small section below on
how the template version is derived.

You can also package all the templates in one fell swoop:

    ./gradlew packageAllTemplates

Once a template is packaged up, you can publish it to a generic (non-Maven)
Bintray repository by running

    ./gradlew publishTemplate<TemplateName>

This will initially fail, because the build does not know where to publish to.
That's quickly fixed by adding a gradle.properties file in the root of this
project that contains at least these properties:

    repo.username=your_bintray_username
    repo.apiKey=your_bintray_apikey

You can then publish new versions of templates whenever you want. Note that you
cannot _republish_ with this mechanism, so remember to increment the version if
you need to.

Finally, you can publish the whole shebang (unusual) with

    ./gradlew publishAllTemplates

If you don't want to publish your template you can install it locally using the
installTemplate rule.

     ./gradlew installTemplate<TemplateName>

This will install the template to ~/.lazybones/templates so that you can use it without
moving it to bintray first.

And that's it for the project templates.

#### Template versions

You define the version of a template by putting a VERSION file in the root
directory of the template that contains just the version number. For example,
you specify a version of 1.2.8 for the my-template template by adding the file
src/templates/my-template/VERSION with the contents

    1.2.8

That's it! The VERSION file will automatically be excluded from the project
template archive.

Contributing templates
----------------------

Read the [Template Developers Guide](https://github.com/pledbrook/lazybones/wiki/Template-developers-guide)
for information on how to create and publish Lazybones templates.

Commit message:

Refs #4 - updated default template section from bintray to artifactory. changed artifactory url to use virtual repo name. bumped patch version for app to 0.9.1.

README.md, after:

Skeletor Project Creation Tool
===============================
Skeletor is fork of the popular [Lazybones](https://github.com/pledbrook/lazybones) 
project created by Peter Ledbrook. Though unmaintained for some time, Lazybones 
continued to be used by other projects as a means to generate project layouts 
from templates and it was distributed on [SDKMAN](https://sdkman.io/) which made it 
more convenient to install and use. This came to an end with the [shutdown of Bintray.](https://jfrog.com/blog/into-the-sunset-bintray-jcenter-gocenter-and-chartcenter/)
 Since this is where the application binaries and "built-in" templates lived and 
SDKMAN stopped distribution as the binaries were no longer available.

My goal is to get Skeletor updated and distributed on SDKMAN. As that is not the 
case yet, I'll document the manual installation process as well.

The big changes from Lazybones are: 
1. The new project name and the application command are both now 'skeletor'
2. The user profile directory for configurations and template cache is now $USER_HOME/.skeletor
3. Bintray repositories are no longer available. Eventually this configuration will be removed.
4. A new URL based repository has been implemented for use by listing and creating projects from it.
Publishing to the repository is not yet implemented. Manual steps are trivial and documented below.

Existing Lazybones templates should still work if moved to a URL repository as described below.
The .lazybones subdirectory created in project templates has been continued here for compatibility purposes.
This maybe changed in a future major version release.

The following content is updated from the original docs... (Work in progress!!)

The tool is very simple: it allows you to create a new project structure for
any framework or library for which the tool has a template. 

The concept of Skeletor is very similar to Maven archetypes, and what [Yeoman](http://yeoman.io/)
does for web applications. Skeletor also includes a subtemplates feature that
resembles the behaviour of Yeoman's sub-generators, allowing you to generate optional
extras (controllers, scaffolding etc.) inside a project.

## Skeletor Developer

* [Carl Marcum](https://github.com/cbmarcum)

## Skeletor Contributors

* [Osian Hughes](https://github.com/osh-onstructive)
* [Dónal Murtagh](https://github.com/donalmurtagh)

## Lazybones Developers

* [Peter Ledbrook](https://github.com/pledbrook)
* [Kyle Boon](https://github.com/kyleboon)
* [Tommy Barker](https://github.com/tbarker9)

## Lazybones Contributors

* [Luke Daley](https://github.com/alkemist)
* [Tomas Lin](https://github.com/tomaslin)
* [Russell Hart](https://github.com/rhart)
* [Dave Syer](https://github.com/dsyer)
* [Andy Duncan](https://github.com/andyjduncan)


## Running it

Grab the distribution [from our JFrog repo](https://codebuilders.jfrog.io/artifactory/generic/skeletor-app),
unpack it to a local directory, and then add its 'bin' directory to your `PATH`
environment variable.

### Finding out what templates are available

To see what templates you can install, run

    skeletor list
 
This will list all aliases and remote templates. If you want to see what
templates you have cached locally, run

    skeletor list --cached

In fact, `--cached` is implied if Lazybones can't connect to the internet.

Example

    skeletor list

    Available templates in https://codebuilders.jfrog.io/artifactory/generic/skeletor-templates

    aoo-addin
    aoo-addin-java
    aoo-addon
    aoo-addon-java
    aoo-client

You can also find out more about a template through the `info` command:

    skeletor info <template name>

This will print a description of the template and what versions are available
for it. If you're offline, this will simply display an error message.

Example
    
    skeletor info aoo-client

    Fetching package information for 'aoo-client' from repo
    Name:        aoo-client
    Latest:      0.3.0
    Description: Apache OpenOffice Client Template for Groovy
    Owner:       Code Builders, LLC
    Versions:    0.3.0

    More information at https://codebuilders.jfrog.io/artifactory/generic/skeletor-templates


### Creating projects

To create a new project, run

    skeletor create <template name> <template version> <target directory>

So if you wanted to create a skeleton Apache OpenOffice Client project in a new 'my-aoo-client-app'
directory you would run

    skeletor create aoo-client 0.3.0 my-aoo-client-app
    
The version is optional and if you leave it out, Skeletor will install the
latest version of the template it can find. 

The default templates are listed from Code Builders, LLC's Artifactory account hosted by JFrog at 
https://codebuilders.jfrog.io/artifactory/generic/skeletor-templates. Skeletor searches for
templates at this URL by default, but you can use other URL repositories by adding some configuration. 
See the Custom Repositories section under Configuration later in this document.

You're not limited to only Bintray as you can install templates directly from 
a URL too:

    lazybones create http://dl.bintray.com/kyleboon/lazybones/java-basic-template-0.1.zip my-app

Of course it can be pretty laborious copying and pasting URLs around, so Lazybones
allows you to configure aliases for URLs that you use frequently. By adding the
following configuration to your Lazybones settings file, `~/.lazybones/config.groovy`
(see below for more details on this), you can install the template by name:

    templates {
        mappings {
            myTmpl = "http://dl.bintray.com/..."
        }
    }

In other words, you could now run

    lazybones create myTmpl my-app

Note that when using the URL option, there is no need to specify a version. You
should also be aware that mappings take precedence, i.e. if a mapping has the
same name as an existing template, the mapping is used. This essentially creates
a simple override mechanism.

There is just one more thing to say about the `create` command: by default it
creates the specified directory and puts the initial project in there. If you
want to unpack a template in the current directory instead, for example if you
have already created the project directory, then just pass '.' as the directory:

    lazybones create ratpack .

Once you have created a new project from a template, you may notice that the
project directory contains a .lazybones sub directory. You may delete this, but
then you won't be able to use the `generate` command (see next section) if the
project template has support for it.

Many project templates request information from you, such as a project name, a
group ID, a default package, etc. If this is the umpteenth time you have created
a project from a given template, then answering the questions can become tedious.
There is also the problem of scripting and automation when you want to create
a project without user intervention. The solution to both these issues is to
pass the values on the command line:

    lazybones create ratpack 1.2.0 ratapp -Pgroup=org.example -Ppackage=org.example.myapp

The `-P` option allows you to pass property values into the project templates
without user intervention. The key is to know what the property names are, and
that comes down to the project template. At the moment, the best way to find out
what those properties are is to look at the post-install script itself.

The last option to mention is `--with-git` which will automatically create a
new git repository in the project directory. The only requirement is that you
have the `git` command on your path.

### Sub-templates

As of Lazybones version 0.7, project templates can incorporate subtemplates.
Imagine that you have just created a new web application project from a template
and that template documents that you can create new controllers using a sub-
template named `controller`. To use it, just `cd` into the project directory
and run

    lazybones generate controller
    
This will probably ask you for the name of the controller and its package before
generating the corresponding controller file in your project. You can reuse the
command to create as many controllers as you need.

As with the `create` command, you can also pass in property values on the command
line if the subtemplate is parameterised:

    lazybones generate controller -Ppackage=org.example.myapp -Pclass=Book
    
The last option available to you as a user is template qualifiers. These only
work if the subtemplate supports them, but they allow you to pass additional
information in a concise way:

    lazybones generate artifact::controller
    
In this case, the template name is `artifact`, but we have qualified it with
an extra `controller`. You can pass in as many qualifiers as you want, you just
separate them with `::`.

Note that you do not specify a version with the `generate` command. This is
because the subtemplates are embedded directly in the project template, and
so there can only be one version available to you.



## Configuration

Skeletor will run out of the box without any extra configuration, but the tool
does allow you to override the default behaviour via a fixed set of configuration
options. These options can be provided in a number of ways following a set order
of precedence:

1.   System properties of the form `lazybones.*`, which can be passed into the app
via either `JAVA_OPTS` or `LAZYBONES_OPTS` environment variables. For example:

        env JAVA_OPTS="-Dlazybones.config.file=/path/to/my-custom-default-config.groovy" lazybones ...

    Highest precedence, i.e. it overrides all other sources of setting data.

2.   User configuration file in `$USER_HOME/.lazybones/config.groovy`. This is parsed
using Groovy's `ConfigSlurper`, so if you're familiar with that syntax you'll be
right at home. Otherwise, just see the examples below.

3.   (Since 0.8) A JSON configuration file in `$USER_HOME/.lazybones/managed-config.groovy`
that is used by the `config` commands. You can edit it this as well.

4.   A Groovy-based default configuration file that is provided by the application
itself, but you can specify an alternative file via the `lazybones.config.file`
system property.

Lazybones also provides a convenient mechanism for setting and removing options
via the command line: the `config` command.

### Command line configuration

The `config` command provides several sub-commands that allow you to interact with
the persisted Lazybones configuration; specifically, the JSON config file. You
run a sub-command via

    lazybones config <sub-cmd> <args>

where `<sub-cmd>` is one of:

*   `set <option> <value> [<value> ...]`

    Allows you to change the value of a configuration setting. Multiple values are
    treated as a single array/list value. The new value replaces any existing one.

*   `add <option> <value>`

    Appends an extra value to an existing array/list setting. Reports an error if
    the setting doesn't accept multiple values. If the setting doesn't already have
    a value, this command will initialise it with an array containing the given
    value.

*   `clear <option>`

    Removes a setting from the configuration, effectively reverting it to whatever
    the internal default is.

*   `show [--all] <option>`

    Shows the current value of a setting. You can use the `--all` argument (without
    a setting name) to display all the current settings and their values.

*   `list`

    Displays all the configuration settings supported by Lazybones.

So what configuration settings are you likely to customise?

### Custom repositories

Lazybones will by default download the templates from a specific Bintray
repository. If you want to host template packages in a different repository
you can add it to Lazybone's search path via the `bintrayRepositories`
setting:

    bintrayRepositories = [
          "kyleboon/lazybones",
          "pledbrook/lazybones-templates"
    ]

If a template exists in more than one repository, it will be downloaded from the
first repository in the list that it appears in.

### Package aliases

If you regularly use a template at a specific URL rather than from Bintray, then
you will want to alias that URL to a name. That's where template mappings (or
aliases) come in. The aliases are defined as normal settings of the form

    templates.mappings.<alias> = <url>

In a Groovy configuration file, you can define multiple aliases in a block:

    templates {
        mappings {
            test = "http://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/29802534/custom-ratpack.zip"
            after = "file:///var/tmp/afterburnerfx-2.0.0.zip"
        }
    }

Alternatively, add them from the command line like this:

    lazybones config set templates.mappings.after file:///var/tmp/afterburnerfx-2.0.0.zip

The aliases will always be available to you until you remove them from the persisted
configuration.

### Setting a proxy (and other system properties) (Since 0.8.1)

Many people have to work behind a proxy, but Lazybones didn't make it easy to
configure one. In fact the only way to do it was to add the relevant system
properties to a `JAVA_OPTS` environment variable. From 0.8.1, you now have another
option.

Lazybones has stolen the idea of having a special form of configuration option for
system properties from Gradle. So if you define a property with a `systemProp.`
prefix, it will be added as a system property internally. So to configure an HTTP
proxy, you only need to add the following to your Lazybones configuration:

    systemProp {
        http {
            proxyHost = "localhost"
            proxyPort = 8181
        }
        https {
            proxyHost = "localhost"
            proxyPort = 8181
        }
    }
    
To avoid potential configuration issues, use the same proxy settings for HTTP and
HTTPS if possible.

If your proxy requires authentication, you will need to add a couple of extra
properties:

    systemProp {
        http {
            proxyUser = "johndoe"
            proxyPassword = "mypassword"
        }
    }

As with the host and port, there are `https` variants of the username and passwordi
as well.

### General options

These are miscellaneous options that can be overridden on the command line:

    // <-- This starts a line comment
    // Set logging level - overridden by command line args
    options.logLevel = "SEVERE"

The logging level can either be overridden using the same `logLevel` setting:

    lazybones --logLevel SEVERE info ratpack

or via `--verbose`, `--quiet`, and `--info` options:

    lazybones --verbose info ratpack

The logging level can be one of:

* OFF
* SEVERE
* WARNING
* INFO
* FINE
* FINEST
* ALL

## Building it

This project is split into two parts:

1. The lazybones command line tool; and
2. The project templates.

### The command line tool

The command line tool is created via Gradle's application plugin. The main
class is `uk.co.cacoethes.lazybones.LazyBonesMain`, which currently implements
all the sub-commands (create, list, etc.) as concrete methods.

The main class plus everything else under src/main is packaged into a lazybones
JAR that is included in the distribution zip. The application Gradle plugin
generates a `lazybones` script that then runs the main class with all required
dependencies on the classpath.

To build the distribution, simply run

    ./gradlew distZip

### The project templates

The project templates are simply directory structures with whatever files in
them that you want. Ultimately, the template project directories will be zipped
up and stored on [Bintray](https://bintray.com/repo/browse/pledbrook/lazybones-templates).
From there, lazybones downloads the zips on demand and caches them in a local
user directory (currently ~/.lazybones/templates).

If you want empty directories to form part of the project template, then simply
add an empty .retain file to each one. When the template archive is created,
any .retain files are filtered out (but the containing directories are included).

To package up a template, simply run

    ./gradlew packageTemplate<TemplateName>

The name of the project template comes from the containing directory, which is
assumed to be lowercase hyphenated. The template name is the equivalent camel
case form. So the template directory structure in src/templates/my-template
results in a template called 'MyTemplate', which can be packaged with

    ./gradlew packageTemplateMyTemplate

The project template archive will be created in the build directory with the
name '<template name>-template-<version>.zip'. See the small section below on
how the template version is derived.

You can also package all the templates in one fell swoop:

    ./gradlew packageAllTemplates

Once a template is packaged up, you can publish it to a generic (non-Maven)
Bintray repository by running

    ./gradlew publishTemplate<TemplateName>

This will initially fail, because the build does not know where to publish to.
That's quickly fixed by adding a gradle.properties file in the root of this
project that contains at least these properties:

    repo.username=your_bintray_username
    repo.apiKey=your_bintray_apikey

You can then publish new versions of templates whenever you want. Note that you
cannot _republish_ with this mechanism, so remember to increment the version if
you need to.

Finally, you can publish the whole shebang (unusual) with

    ./gradlew publishAllTemplates

If you don't want to publish your template you can install it locally using the
installTemplate rule.

     ./gradlew installTemplate<TemplateName>

This will install the template to ~/.lazybones/templates so that you can use it without
moving it to bintray first.

And that's it for the project templates.

#### Template versions

You define the version of a template by putting a VERSION file in the root
directory of the template that contains just the version number. For example,
you specify a version of 1.2.8 for the my-template template by adding the file
src/templates/my-template/VERSION with the contents

    1.2.8

That's it! The VERSION file will automatically be excluded from the project
template archive.

Contributing templates
----------------------

Read the [Template Developers Guide](https://github.com/pledbrook/lazybones/wiki/Template-developers-guide)
for information on how to create and publish Lazybones templates.
